---
id: "20210120"
title: Meeting minutes 2021-01-20
sidebar_label: 2021-01-20
---

<!-- Don't forget to add minutes to website/sidebars.json! -->

20 January 2021, 3:00 pm UTC

## Attendees

* **Artefactual**: Sarah Romkey, Justin Simpson, Jesús Garcia Crespo, Kelly Stewart
* **Bodleian**: Susan Thomas, Matthew Neely, James Mooney, Ruth Turvey
* **IISG**: Eric de Ruijter, Robert Gillesse, Lucien van Wouw
* **Max Communications**: Geoff Blissitt, Tim Schofield
* **Picturae**: Wim van Dongen
* **Wellcome Collection**: Tom Scott, Jonathan Tweed

Regrets: None

Meeting chair: Sarah Romkey

Note-taker: Kelly Stewart

## Agenda

3:00 UTC	Meeting starts (Sarah Romkey)

3:05 UTC	Housekeeping (Sarah Romkey)

3:10 UTC	Artefactual update (Kelly Stewart)

3:20 UTC  Artefactual’s intent for Archivematica (Sarah and Jesús)

3:40 UTC  Collaborative development projects (Sarah/all)

4:00 UTC Bodleian metadata output (Ruth Turvey)

4:20 UTC 2021 meeting dates (Sarah Romkey)

4:25 UTC Meeting wrap-up (Sarah Romkey)

## Notes

### Housekeeping

* Dutch Flemish User Group meeting planned for February 4th, 2021
* Report on AIPScan forthcoming
* Geoff raised the idea of inviting guest speakers to future meetings, as discussed in the last meeting.  This would help align our work and might lead to those 
guests considering joining the PSP.  

### Artefactual update

* We’ve been fairly introspective. We came up with a list of core values that we have. It’s an internal measurement, we don’t want to put any of this in the website.
We’ve also been doing some work to come up with a mission statement - we will eventually update our website, incorporate our values and mission statement. It’s 
quite a bit of work and mental thinking. But sets us in a good place as a company to move forward.
* We’ve been thinking about our processes, from selling a service to a new client to work with customers, pass information to support, move things from development 
to support, development work, etc… making sure that all those bits are working together. This is all part of our mission values and thinking about our 
certification process.
* We’ve been thinking about our products and open source projects. Sarah and Jesús are going to be talking about this a bit further later.
* We’ll continue over 2021, this will be the main focus of the year. Artefactual is going to look different.
* We’re planning a virtual Archivematica camp tentatively scheduled for May, but we’re in the early stages. Concordia is participating (and sponsoring?), and being 
a host in the virtual sense. We’re going to be doing some work and preps over the next few months. Stay tuned for more information and look for announcements in the
user forums.
* Q: Do you know yet what the fees will be for attending online camp?
  * We don’t know yet. We’re still thinking how we want to run the camp, do we want to record it, run it live, etc… and all of that will affect the price.

### Artefactual’s intent for Archivematica

* Slides will be shared after the meeting.
* Will share a link to the meeting notes from the Dec 2020 meeting on collaborative development.

* We discussed a balance between short term and long term thinking.
* Sarah showed an example github projects board: https://github.com/archivematica/issues/projects/1
Any psp member that has a github account should be able to add github issues to this shared project.  This is meant as a start as a way for psp members to 
share more information about what work they are doing.  

* We will look at having a breakout group to discuss this in more detail in 3 or 4 weeks. 
* We discussed the need to review the list of ideas/issues and prioritize in terms of what is important in the short term and what might be tackled 
differently in the long term.
* Geoff raised the idea of capturing why issues are considered important - we will look at ADR’s as a way of documenting the context and forces and motivations for
prioritizing issues and selection solutions.

### Bodleian metadata output

* Bodleian asked for more feedback on the content in their slides.

* Picturae and Artefactual will both fill out the survey from the perspective of representative clients, or ask those clients to fill it out directly.

### 2021 meeting dates
* January 20
* April 14
* July 14
* October 20

7 am PST - 9 AM PST

