---
id: "20210421"
title: Meeting minutes 2021-04-21
sidebar_label: 2021-04-21
---

<!-- Don't forget to add minutes to website/sidebars.json! -->

21 April 2021, 2:00 pm UTC

## Attendees

* **Artefactual**: Sarah Romkey, Justin Simpson, Jesús Garcia Crespo, Kelly Stewart
* **Bodleian**: Susan Thomas, Matthew Neely, James Mooney, Ruth Turvey
* **IISG**: Eric de Ruijter, Robert Gillesse, Lucien van Wouw
* **Max Communications**: Geoff Blissitt
* **Picturae**:
* **Wellcome Collection**: Jonathan Tweed

Regrets: Wim van Dongen

## Agenda

2:00 UTC - Meeting starts (Sarah Romkey)

2:05 UTC - Housekeeping (Sarah Romkey)

2:10 UTC - Artefactual update (Kelly Stewart)

2:20 UTC - Collaborative development projects update (Sarah Romkey/all)

2:50 UTC - AIP data model (Sarah Romkey)

3:10 UTC - Bodleian update on alternative metadata update (James Mooney)

3:55 UTC - Meeting wrap-up (Sarah Romkey)

## Notes

### Housekeeping

* Slack channel is up and running

### Artefactual update

* Intention to move away from bounty model as much as possible; led to creation of Product Capability Team. Has been running for about 4 weeks. We worked with 
consultants who gave us a starting point and suggested a small team to start. Team is Sarah Romkey, Corinne Rogers and Jenn Roberts- representatives from 
Software and Architecture Development, Business Dev and Projects. Hope to continue to grow this as the year goes on.
* AIP data model has been a strong focus in the month of April. 
* Hosting an Archivematica in 4 weeks- virtual of course but organized jointly by Concordia University in Montreal. Sold out quickly and has a long waiting list. 
We plan to see how this one goes before scheduling any future camps. Doing as much as possible to recreate the sense of community from an in-person camp.
* Archivematica Con- there is an intention to hold that this fall as a virtual event, and Artefactual will run a 1-day boot camp as part of it. Call for papers 
soon.
* Thinking more in business development unit about short/medium/long term strategies for Archivematica, when people come to us with requests for development.

### Collaborative Development Projects

* slack channel set up
* review proposal
* break down the work
* James - maybe those who need to participate should meet and get some pattern of working established
* Sarah R to arrange a time for the next meeting to discuss breakdown of tasks and then use slack after that
* Sarah R will double check who is interested and send a doodle poll to Wim (for user testing), Bodleian, Max Comm
* Sarah R - this is a topic/pain point that will address a need that will help us to practice
* Sarah R - also interested in discussing a future AM - either iteration / tooling.  Addressing from a problem point of view.  Needs in terms of the domain.  
* Jonathan - Wellcome can be available for longer term work but not for next few months
* Jonathan - all dev teams at Wellcome are coming together under Jonathan to work on one problem at a time.  No commitment from wellcome for next 6 months.   
Can only commit to planning until end of 2021. Preservation being handled by digitization team (Christie Henshaw, Ashley) and they might be able to be more involved
* Sarah R - do we want to start thinking about more long-term plans in the fall?
* Kelly - maybe sooner?
* Susan - it’s helpful to get something in the calendar
* Sarah R - set up meeting in June for this
* Sarah R - set up shorter meetings for short-term project

### AIP Data Model (see slides) - questions & feedback

* Spec is the key thing (Susan)
* get a better idea of what info we can get from the db to store in md output (Sebastian)
* entities - not sure how they should be related (Jesús) so the data model will be useful
* not sure best way to represent the model (Jesús)
* starting process by looking at core conceptual model is right approach (Jonathan)
* not looking at physical wrapper is also right approach (Jonathan)
* time frame? (Susan)
* this month and early May (Sarah R)

### Bodleian update

* started to investigate and prototyping different md output instead of mets with the idea of having a much more concise version rather than mets to compile for statistics
* what fields do the need and what should it look like
* sent survey of what key fields are necessary
* md relating to structure and md relating to content
* Sebastien has been looking at what is in the db
* starting with simple json file
* interesting in learning about different outputs (rdf, mets, xml, etc) to see if the md can be serialized (configurable) not just to json but to different formats
* over time want to be able to restrict what goes in mets 
* comments welcome here: https://github.com/archivematica/Issues/issues/1437
* in early stage (Sebastian) - update later this week or next week - would be great if could have more feedback from others
* scalability of the mets file - is the blocker because of indexing? (Sarah R)
* mets file is fundamental to AM so can’t just eliminate.  This is an investigation to see what might be possible.  Want something smaller and more human readable.  Over time want to turn off more and more of the mets file and use an alternative (James).
* could also be useful in a future product (James) that can scale to hundreds of thousands without being cumbersome
* may be some other dev work that looks at a way that AM can set off a script in the ingest process to tell AM to run this diff format (James)
