---
id: 20200115-minutes
title: Meeting minutes 2020-01-15
sidebar_label: 2020-01-15
---

15 January 2020
3:30 p.m. UTC  ([time zone calculator](http://bit.ly/2S67HY9))

## Attendees

* Artefactual: Sara Allain, Sarah Romkey, Justin Simpson, Jesús Garcia Crespo
* Bodleian: Susan, Matthew, James, Wendy
* IISG: Eric, Robert
* Max Communications: Geoff, Tim
* Picturae: Wim
* Wellcome Collection: Tom, Jonathan

Regrets: none

## Agenda

3:30 UTC - Meeting starts

3:35 UTC - Terms of Reference review (Sara Allain)
* Review draft terms of reference

4:00 UTC - Roadmap sharing (Sarah Romkey)
* Artefactual
* Bodleian
* IISH
* Max Communications
* Picturae
* Wellcome

4:45 UTC - Discussion of Archivematica core vs. extensions (Sarah Romkey)


5:15 UTC - “Off-schedule” presentations (Sarah Romkey)
* Enduro - February/March; presentation by Artefactual staff on background and future plans for this new prototype automation tool
* Others?

5:25 UTC - Meeting wrap-up
* Next meeting - April 22, 2020 at 3:00 p.m. UTC


## Notes

### Terms of Reference review

* Led by: Sara Allain
* Review draft terms of reference
* Notes made on the TOR draft document

### Roadmap sharing

* Led by: Sarah Romkey

#### Artefactual

* Use Trello for organizing high-level work - epic-level descriptions of features or sets of features (i.e. Preservation Action Registry)
* Discrete issues are filed in the Archivematica Issues repository
* “Scheduled-1.x” column has cards for features that will be in the next release
* Internally we use Codetree, which is a kanban-style list of all of issues across all Archivematica repositories (all information in Codetree is also available in GitHub, but not organized in kanban-style boards)

#### Bodleian

* Prepared some slides - based on experience with Archivematica proof of concept project that they did in 2019
* Highlighted gaps - performance, error reporting, metadata, user access/permissions
* Performance and metadata are their two highest priorities
* Don’t have developer on board yet so haven’t sorted out tooling around this work but expect to do so in the future

#### IISG

* List is not really a roadmap, more of a wishlist
* Largely about performance and integration with other systems
* Want to ingest bigger collections than they can now
* Dataverse and ArchivesSpace integrations are high priority - hoping that they can use as-is
* Pre- and post-ingest workflows - trying to automate as much as possible
* Office docs and email normalization - lower priority but still important, and not yet solved by the community
* Very interested in reporting as well - specifically knowing what has been processed/preserved

#### Max Communications

* List of suggested requirements that is coming out of their six-month plan
* Will be issuing roadmap soon
* Will be doing several client demos over the next few weeks so expect to get more customer feedback to add to the list soon
* Interested in more of an integrated development approach - better AIP management so that customers aren’t immediately creating spreadsheets to track things
  * I.e. some notion of “projects” inside Archivematica
* Batch creation of AIPs (also deleting of AIPs)
* Better reporting
* Also specific client requests like time-limited viewing portals

#### Picturae

* Wishlist - gathered from experience at camp and also discussions with City of Amsterdam and other clients; lots of overlap between other
* Also some “Dutch specialities” - Picturae developing workflows that are specific to the Dutch archival community; might not be universally applicable but the process of writing that code could present helpful lessons (i.e. how to write custom code that is easy to migrate along with AM versions)

#### Wellcome

* Roadmap focuses on born digital workflow
* Struggling to get AM working containerized on AWS - this is a high priority
* Want to ensure that all development is aligned with core Archivematica development
* Thinking through a step change in the UX of the Archivematica dashboard - i.e. error messages, responsiveness; also specific areas like the appraisal tab
* Decreased coupling and independent service scaling - right now it’s hard to run AM containerized, makes it difficult to improve performance
* Also looking at new features like integration with Sharepoint, email appraisal

#### Comments

* Sarah will collate responses into broad feature categories
* Nice to see a lot of common ground between institutional priorities

### Discussion of Archivematica core vs. extensions

* Led by: Sarah Romkey
* Wellcome document - core is the workflow engine that describes and stores content
* IISH document - the “sausage factory” - is an AIP-producing thing via workflow manager. Considering how “lean” Archivematica should be - what should happen inside Archivematica and what should happen outside (e.g. de-duplication - should it happen outside as a pre-ingest workflow?)
* Format migration - how to track files by format and migrate them to new best practice formats over time
* Justin - interested in looking at storage management as a potential
* Tom - this is an area where Artefactual should be a benevolent dictator - not going to be helpful if we try to satisfy everybody
* Including things like supported deployment environments,
* Justin, Sarah, Jesús will collate these ideas - more feedback welcome via email
* Wim notes that the IISH and Wellcome documents covered all of his thoughts
* Tom - suggests that Archivematica core should be defined very leanly/concisely, with extensions written much more broadly so that they can be used in a wide variety of ways
* Wim - basic point that has to be reiterated a lot to customers is what’s in scope and what’s out of scope

### “Off-schedule” presentations

* Led by: Sarah Romkey
* Enduro - February/March; presentation by Artefactual staff on background and future plans for this new prototype automation tool
  * Sara to schedule demo/discussion
  * Will be recorded for those who can’t make it
* Others?
  * Reporting - how Grafana/Prometheus is being used - Wendy and James could present on what the Bodleian has done in their microservices project (after April); Artefactual could contribute some content too

### Other topics
* Wendy - Bodleian is going to be recruiting a developer, what skills/knowledge should they be looking for?
* Justin - would like to work on this as a generic document that could be available to everyone

### Meeting wrap-up
* Next meeting - April 22, 2020 at 3:00 p.m. UTC
* Agenda items for next meeting:
  * Sarah, Justin, Jesús to present “Archivematica core” definition (major agenda item)
  * October meeting location
